[Concept Entry]: Added bindec in the terms folder of math-function (#2526)
Codecademy/docs: content/php/concepts/math-functions/terms/bindec/bindec.md

---
Title: 'bindec()'
Description: 'Returns an integer representing the decimal value of the binary string passed as input.'
Subjects:
  - 'Computer Science'
  - 'Web Development'
Tags:
  - 'Arithmetic'
  - 'Functions'
  - 'Methods'
  - 'Numbers'
CatalogContent:
  - 'learn-php'
  - 'paths/computer-science'
---

> The `bindec()` function in PHP is used to convert a binary string representation to its decimal equivalent. It takes a binary string as input and returns the corresponding decimal value.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The **`bindec()`** function in PHP is used to convert a binary string representation to its decimal equivalent. It takes a binary string as input and returns the corresponding decimal value.
```

## Syntax

> Here's an explanation of the `bindec()` function along with syntax:

Reviewer: We don't need this sentence. Let's remove it.

```pseudo
bindec(string $binary_string): int
```

> - **Parameters**:

Reviewer: Let's remove the `**Parameters**` and `**Return Value**` and just have the two bullet points.

  - `$binary_string`: The binary string to be converted to decimal.

- **Return Value**:
  - Returns an integer representing the decimal value of the binary string.

## Example 1

```php
$binaryString = '101010';
$decimalValue = bindec($binaryString);
echo $decimalValue;
```

The output for the above code will be:

```shell
42
```

In the above example, the binary string `101010` is converted to its decimal equivalent, which is `42`.

> ## Example 2

Reviewer: We don't need a second example, let's remove it.

```php
$binaryString = '1100101';
$decimalValue = bindec($binaryString);
echo $decimalValue;
```

The output for the above code will be:

```shell
101
```

In this example, the binary string `1100101` is converted to its decimal equivalent, which is `101`.

> It's important to note that if the binary string contains characters other than `0` and `1`, or if it's an empty string, the `bindec()` function will return `0`. Additionally, if the binary string is too large to fit into an integer, the function may return an incorrect result due to integer overflow.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> **Note:** If the binary string contains characters other than `0` and `1`, or if it's an empty string, the `bindec()` function will return `0`. Additionally, if the binary string is too large to fit into an integer (defined by the system, usually 32 or 64 bits) the function may return an incorrect result due to integer overflow.
```

> ## Additional details

Reviewer: Most of these are redundant with the information you've given in the above note. We can remove this.
